doc/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing

## Pull requests:

Changes to this project should be proposed as pull requests on Github
at: <https://github.com/lxc/lxd>

Proposed changes will then go through code review there and once acked,
be merged in the main branch.


## License and copyright:

By default, any contribution to this project is made under the Apache
2.0 license.

The author of a change remains the copyright holder of their code
(no copyright assignment).


## Developer Certificate of Origin:

To improve tracking of contributions to this project we use the DCO 1.1
and use a "sign-off" procedure for all changes going into the branch.

The sign-off is a simple line at the end of the explanation for the
commit which certifies that you wrote it or otherwise have the right
to pass it on as an open-source contribution.

> Developer Certificate of Origin
> Version 1.1
>
> Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.
> 660 York Street, Suite 102,
> San Francisco, CA 94110 USA
>
> Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
> license document, but changing it is not allowed.
>
> Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1
>
> By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:
>
> (a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
>     have the right to submit it under the open source license
>     indicated in the file; or
>
> (b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
>     of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
>     license and I have the right under that license to submit that
>     work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
>     by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
>     permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
>     in the file; or
>
> (c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
>     person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
>     it.
>
> (d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
>     are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
>     personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
>     maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
>     this project or the open source license(s) involved.

An example of a valid sign-off line is:

```
Signed-off-by: Random J Developer <random@developer.org>
```

Use your real name and a valid e-mail address.
Sorry, no pseudonyms or anonymous contributions are allowed.

We also require each commit be individually signed-off by their author,
even when part of a larger set. You may find `git commit -s` useful.

Commit message:

doc: Add commit structure to contributing.md
Signed-off-by: Stéphane Graber <stgraber@ubuntu.com>

doc/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing
## Pull requests
Changes to this project should be proposed as pull requests on Github
at: <https://github.com/lxc/lxd>

Proposed changes will then go through code review there and once acked,
be merged in the main branch.

## Commit structure
Separate commits should be used for:
 - API extension (`api: Add XYZ extension`, contains `doc/api-extensions.md` and `shared/version.api.go`)
 - Documentation (`doc: Update XYZ` for files in `doc/`)
 - API structure (`shared/api: Add XYZ` for changes to `shared/api/`)
 - Go client package (`client: Add XYZ` for changes to `client/`)
 - CLI (`lxc/<command>: Change XYZ` for changes to `lxc/`)
 - Scripts (`scripts: Update bash completion for XYZ` for changes to `scripts/`)
 - LXD daemon (`lxd/<package>: Add support for XYZ` for changes to `lxd/`)
 - Tests (`tests: Add test for XYZ` for changes to `tests/`)

The same kind of pattern extends to the other tools in the LXD code tree
and depending on complexity, things may be split into even smaller chunks.

When updating strings in the CLI tool (`lxc/`), you may need a commit to update the templates:
 - make i18n
 - git commit -a -s -m "i18n: Update translation templates" po/

This structure makes it easier for contributions to be reviewed and also
greatly simplifies the process of backporting fixes to stable branches.

## License and copyright
By default, any contribution to this project is made under the Apache
2.0 license.

The author of a change remains the copyright holder of their code
(no copyright assignment).


## Developer Certificate of Origin
To improve tracking of contributions to this project we use the DCO 1.1
and use a "sign-off" procedure for all changes going into the branch.

The sign-off is a simple line at the end of the explanation for the
commit which certifies that you wrote it or otherwise have the right
to pass it on as an open-source contribution.

> Developer Certificate of Origin
> Version 1.1
>
> Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.
> 660 York Street, Suite 102,
> San Francisco, CA 94110 USA
>
> Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
> license document, but changing it is not allowed.
>
> Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1
>
> By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:
>
> (a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
>     have the right to submit it under the open source license
>     indicated in the file; or
>
> (b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
>     of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
>     license and I have the right under that license to submit that
>     work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
>     by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
>     permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
>     in the file; or
>
> (c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
>     person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
>     it.
>
> (d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
>     are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
>     personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
>     maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
>     this project or the open source license(s) involved.

An example of a valid sign-off line is:

```
Signed-off-by: Random J Developer <random@developer.org>
```

Use your real name and a valid e-mail address.
Sorry, no pseudonyms or anonymous contributions are allowed.

We also require each commit be individually signed-off by their author,
even when part of a larger set. You may find `git commit -s` useful.
