doc/image-handling.md, before:

# Image handling

## Introduction
LXD uses an image based workflow. It comes with a built-in image store
where the user or external tools can import images.

Containers are then started from those images.

It's possible to spawn remote instances using local images or local
instances using remote images. In such cases, the image may be cached
on the target LXD.

## Caching
When spawning an instance from a remote image, the remote image is
downloaded into the local image store with the cached bit set. The image
will be kept locally as a private image until either it's been unused
(no new instance spawned) for the number of days set in
`images.remote_cache_expiry` or until the image's expiry is reached
whichever comes first.

LXD keeps track of image usage by updating the `last_used_at` image
property every time a new instance is spawned from the image.

## Auto-update
LXD can keep images up to date. By default, any image which comes from a
remote server and was requested through an alias will be automatically
updated by LXD. This can be changed with `images.auto_update_cached`.

On startup and then every 6 hours (unless `images.auto_update_interval`
is set), the LXD daemon will go look for more recent version of all the
images in the store which are marked as auto-update and have a recorded
source server.

When a new image is found, it is downloaded into the image store, the
aliases pointing to the old image are moved to the new one and the old
image is removed from the store.

The user can also request a particular image be kept up to date when
manually copying an image from a remote server.


If a new upstream image update is published and the local LXD has the
previous image in its cache when the user requests a new instance to be
created from it, LXD will use the previous version of the image rather
than delay the instance creation.

This behavior only happens if the current image is scheduled to be
auto-updated and can be disabled by setting `images.auto_update_interval` to 0.

## Profiles
A list of profiles can be associated with an image using the `lxc image edit`
command. After associating profiles with an image, an instance launched
using the image will have the profiles applied in order. If `nil` is passed
as the list of profiles, only the `default` profile will be associated with 
the image. If an empty list is passed, then no profile will be associated
with the image, not even the `default` profile. An image's associated
profiles can be overridden when launching an instance by using the 
`--profile` and the `--no-profiles` flags to `lxc launch`.

## Image format
LXD currently supports two LXD-specific image formats.

The first is a unified tarball, where a single tarball
contains both the instance root and the needed metadata.

The second is a split model, using two files instead, one containing
the root, the other containing the metadata.

The former is what's produced by LXD itself and what people should be
using for LXD-specific images.

The latter is designed to allow for easy image building from existing
non-LXD rootfs tarballs already available today.

### Unified tarball
Tarball, can be compressed and contains:

 - `rootfs/`
 - `metadata.yaml`
 - `templates/` (optional)

In this mode, the image identifier is the SHA-256 of the tarball.

### Split tarballs
Two (possibly compressed) tarballs. One for metadata, one for the rootfs.

`metadata.tar` contains:

 - `metadata.yaml`
 - `templates/` (optional)

`rootfs.tar` contains a Linux root filesystem at its root.

In this mode the image identifier is the SHA-256 of the concatenation of
the metadata and rootfs tarball (in that order).

### Supported compression
The tarball(s) can be compressed using bz2, gz, xz, lzma, tar (uncompressed) or
it can also be a squashfs image.

### Content
For containers, the rootfs directory (or tarball) contains a full file system tree of what will become the `/`.
For VMs, this is instead a `root.img` file which becomes the main disk device.

The templates directory contains pongo2-formatted templates of files inside the instance.

`metadata.yaml` contains information relevant to running the image under
LXD, at the moment, this contains:

```yaml
architecture: x86_64
creation_date: 1424284563
properties:
  description: Ubuntu 18.04 LTS Intel 64bit
  os: Ubuntu
  release: bionic 18.04
templates:
  /etc/hosts:
    when:
      - create
      - rename
    template: hosts.tpl
    properties:
      foo: bar
  /etc/hostname:
    when:
      - start
    template: hostname.tpl
  /etc/network/interfaces:
    when:
      - create
    template: interfaces.tpl
    create_only: true
```

The `architecture` and `creation_date` fields are mandatory, the properties
are just a set of default properties for the image. The os, release,
name and description fields while not mandatory in any way, should be
pretty common.

For templates, the `when` key can be one or more of:

 - `create` (run at the time a new instance is created from the image)
 - `copy` (run when an instance is created from an existing one)
 - `start` (run every time the instance is started)

The templates will always receive the following context:

 - `trigger`: name of the event which triggered the template (string)
 - `path`: path of the file being templated (string)
 - `container`: key/value map of instance properties (name, architecture, privileged and ephemeral) (map[string]string) (deprecated in favor of `instance`)
 - `instance`: key/value map of instance properties (name, architecture, privileged and ephemeral) (map[string]string)
 - `config`: key/value map of the instance's configuration (map[string]string)
 - `devices`: key/value map of the devices assigned to this instance (map[string]map[string]string)
 - `properties`: key/value map of the template properties specified in metadata.yaml (map[string]string)

The `create_only` key can be set to have LXD only only create missing files but not overwrite an existing file.

As a general rule, you should never template a file which is owned by a
package or is otherwise expected to be overwritten by normal operation
of the instance.

For convenience the following functions are exported to pongo templates:

 - `config_get("user.foo", "bar")` => Returns the value of `user.foo` or `"bar"` if unset.

Commit message:

clarifications about "Error: Missing LXD-Image-Hash header"

doc/image-handling.md, after:

# Image handling

## Introduction
LXD uses an image based workflow. It comes with a built-in image store
where the user or external tools can import images.

Containers are then started from those images.

It's possible to spawn remote instances using local images or local
instances using remote images. In such cases, the image may be cached
on the target LXD.

## Caching
When spawning an instance from a remote image, the remote image is
downloaded into the local image store with the cached bit set. The image
will be kept locally as a private image until either it's been unused
(no new instance spawned) for the number of days set in
`images.remote_cache_expiry` or until the image's expiry is reached
whichever comes first.

LXD keeps track of image usage by updating the `last_used_at` image
property every time a new instance is spawned from the image.

## Auto-update
LXD can keep images up to date. By default, any image which comes from a
remote server and was requested through an alias will be automatically
updated by LXD. This can be changed with `images.auto_update_cached`.

On startup and then every 6 hours (unless `images.auto_update_interval`
is set), the LXD daemon will go look for more recent version of all the
images in the store which are marked as auto-update and have a recorded
source server.

When a new image is found, it is downloaded into the image store, the
aliases pointing to the old image are moved to the new one and the old
image is removed from the store.

The user can also request a particular image be kept up to date when
manually copying an image from a remote server.


If a new upstream image update is published and the local LXD has the
previous image in its cache when the user requests a new instance to be
created from it, LXD will use the previous version of the image rather
than delay the instance creation.

This behavior only happens if the current image is scheduled to be
auto-updated and can be disabled by setting `images.auto_update_interval` to 0.

## Profiles
A list of profiles can be associated with an image using the `lxc image edit`
command. After associating profiles with an image, an instance launched
using the image will have the profiles applied in order. If `nil` is passed
as the list of profiles, only the `default` profile will be associated with 
the image. If an empty list is passed, then no profile will be associated
with the image, not even the `default` profile. An image's associated
profiles can be overridden when launching an instance by using the 
`--profile` and the `--no-profiles` flags to `lxc launch`.

## Image format
LXD currently supports two LXD-specific image formats.

The first is a unified tarball, where a single tarball
contains both the instance root and the needed metadata.

The second is a split model, using two files instead, one containing
the root, the other containing the metadata.

The former is what's produced by LXD itself and what people should be
using for LXD-specific images.

The latter is designed to allow for easy image building from existing
non-LXD rootfs tarballs already available today.

### Unified tarball
Tarball, can be compressed and contains:

 - `rootfs/`
 - `metadata.yaml`
 - `templates/` (optional)

In this mode, the image identifier is the SHA-256 of the tarball. If the image 
is hosted on a server, the server hosting the remote image should set the 
LXD-Image-Hash header else the operation will fail with "Error: Missing LXD-Image-Hash header".

### Split tarballs
Two (possibly compressed) tarballs. One for metadata, one for the rootfs.

`metadata.tar` contains:

 - `metadata.yaml`
 - `templates/` (optional)

`rootfs.tar` contains a Linux root filesystem at its root.

In this mode the image identifier is the SHA-256 of the concatenation of
the metadata and rootfs tarball (in that order).

### Supported compression
The tarball(s) can be compressed using bz2, gz, xz, lzma, tar (uncompressed) or
it can also be a squashfs image.

### Content
For containers, the rootfs directory (or tarball) contains a full file system tree of what will become the `/`.
For VMs, this is instead a `root.img` file which becomes the main disk device.

The templates directory contains pongo2-formatted templates of files inside the instance.

`metadata.yaml` contains information relevant to running the image under
LXD, at the moment, this contains:

```yaml
architecture: x86_64
creation_date: 1424284563
properties:
  description: Ubuntu 18.04 LTS Intel 64bit
  os: Ubuntu
  release: bionic 18.04
templates:
  /etc/hosts:
    when:
      - create
      - rename
    template: hosts.tpl
    properties:
      foo: bar
  /etc/hostname:
    when:
      - start
    template: hostname.tpl
  /etc/network/interfaces:
    when:
      - create
    template: interfaces.tpl
    create_only: true
```

The `architecture` and `creation_date` fields are mandatory, the properties
are just a set of default properties for the image. The os, release,
name and description fields while not mandatory in any way, should be
pretty common.

For templates, the `when` key can be one or more of:

 - `create` (run at the time a new instance is created from the image)
 - `copy` (run when an instance is created from an existing one)
 - `start` (run every time the instance is started)

The templates will always receive the following context:

 - `trigger`: name of the event which triggered the template (string)
 - `path`: path of the file being templated (string)
 - `container`: key/value map of instance properties (name, architecture, privileged and ephemeral) (map[string]string) (deprecated in favor of `instance`)
 - `instance`: key/value map of instance properties (name, architecture, privileged and ephemeral) (map[string]string)
 - `config`: key/value map of the instance's configuration (map[string]string)
 - `devices`: key/value map of the devices assigned to this instance (map[string]map[string]string)
 - `properties`: key/value map of the template properties specified in metadata.yaml (map[string]string)

The `create_only` key can be set to have LXD only only create missing files but not overwrite an existing file.

As a general rule, you should never template a file which is owned by a
package or is otherwise expected to be overwritten by normal operation
of the instance.

For convenience the following functions are exported to pongo templates:

 - `config_get("user.foo", "bar")` => Returns the value of `user.foo` or `"bar"` if unset.
