doc/index.md, before:

[![LXD](https://linuxcontainers.org/static/img/containers.png)](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd)
# LXD
LXD is a next generation system container manager.  
It offers a user experience similar to virtual machines but using Linux containers instead.

It's image based with pre-made images available for a [wide number of Linux distributions](https://images.linuxcontainers.org)  
and is built around a very powerful, yet pretty simple, REST API.

To get a better idea of what LXD is and what it does, you can [try it online](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/try-it/)!  
Then if you want to run it locally, take a look at our [getting started guide](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/getting-started-cli/).

Release announcements can be found here: <https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/news/>  
And the release tarballs here: <https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/downloads/>

## Status
Type                | Service               | Status
---                 | ---                   | ---
CI (Linux)          | Jenkins               | [![Build Status](https://jenkins.linuxcontainers.org/job/lxd-github-commit/badge/icon)](https://jenkins.linuxcontainers.org/job/lxd-github-commit/)
CI (macOS)          | Travis                | [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lxc/lxd.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lxc/lxd/)
CI (Windows)        | AppVeyor              | [![Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/rb4141dsi2xm3n0x/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/lxc/lxd/)
LXD documentation   | ReadTheDocs           | [![Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/lxd/badge/?version=latest&style=flat)](https://lxd.readthedocs.org)
Go documentation    | Godoc                 | [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/lxc/lxd/client?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/lxc/lxd/client)
Static analysis     | GoReport              | [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/lxc/lxd)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/lxc/lxd)
Translations        | Weblate               | [![Translation status](https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/linux-containers/-/svg-badge.svg)](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/linux-containers/lxd/)
Project status      | CII Best Practices    | [![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1086/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1086)

## Installing LXD from packages
Instructions on installing LXD for a wide variety of Linux distributions and operating systems [can be found on our website](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/getting-started-cli/).

## Installing LXD from source
We recommend having the latest versions of liblxc (>= 2.0.0 required)
available for LXD development. Additionally, LXD requires Golang 1.10 or
later to work. On ubuntu, you can get those with:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install acl autoconf dnsmasq-base git golang libacl1-dev libcap-dev liblxc1 liblxc-dev libtool libuv1-dev make pkg-config rsync squashfs-tools tar tcl xz-utils ebtables
```

Note that when building LXC yourself, ensure to build it with the appropriate
security related libraries installed which our testsuite tests. Again, on
ubuntu, you can get those with:

```bash
sudo apt install libapparmor-dev libseccomp-dev libcap-dev
```

There are a few storage backends for LXD besides the default "directory" backend.
Installing these tools adds a bit to initramfs and may slow down your
host boot, but are needed if you'd like to use a particular backend:

```bash
sudo apt install lvm2 thin-provisioning-tools
sudo apt install btrfs-tools
```

To run the testsuite, you'll also need:

```bash
sudo apt install curl gettext jq sqlite3 uuid-runtime bzr socat
```


### Building the tools
LXD consists of two binaries, a client called `lxc` and a server called `lxd`.
These live in the source tree in the `lxc/` and `lxd/` dirs, respectively.
To get the code, set up your go environment:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/go
export GOPATH=~/go
```

And then download it as usual:

```bash
go get -d -v github.com/lxc/lxd/lxd
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/lxc/lxd
make deps
export CGO_CFLAGS="${CGO_CFLAGS} -I${GOPATH}/deps/sqlite/ -I${GOPATH}/deps/dqlite/include/ -I${GOPATH}/deps/raft/include/ -I${GOPATH}/deps/libco/"
export CGO_LDFLAGS="${CGO_LDFLAGS} -L${GOPATH}/deps/sqlite/.libs/ -L${GOPATH}/deps/dqlite/.libs/ -L${GOPATH}/deps/raft/.libs -L${GOPATH}/deps/libco/"
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="${GOPATH}/deps/sqlite/.libs/:${GOPATH}/deps/dqlite/.libs/:${GOPATH}/deps/raft/.libs:${GOPATH}/deps/libco/:${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}"
make
```

...which will give you two binaries in `$GOPATH/bin`, `lxd` the daemon binary,
and `lxc` a command line client to that daemon.

### Machine Setup
You'll need sub{u,g}ids for root, so that LXD can create the unprivileged
containers:

```bash
echo "root:1000000:65536" | sudo tee -a /etc/subuid /etc/subgid
```

Now you can run the daemon (the `--group sudo` bit allows everyone in the `sudo`
group to talk to LXD; you can create your own group if you want):

```bash
sudo -E LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH $GOPATH/bin/lxd --group sudo
```

## Security
LXD, similar to other container managers provides a UNIX socket for local communication.

**WARNING**: Anyone with access to that socket can fully control LXD, which includes
the ability to attach host devices and filesystems, this should
therefore only be given to users who would be trusted with root access
to the host.

When listening on the network, the same API is available on a TLS socket
(HTTPS), specific access on the remote API can be restricted through
Canonical RBAC.


More details are [available here](security.md).

## Getting started with LXD
Now that you have LXD running on your system you can read the [getting started guide](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/getting-started-cli/) or go through more examples and configurations in [our documentation](https://lxd.readthedocs.org).

## Bug reports
Bug reports can be filed at: <https://github.com/lxc/lxd/issues/new>

## Contributing
Fixes and new features are greatly appreciated but please read our [contributing guidelines](contributing.md) first.

## Support and discussions
### Forum
A discussion forum is available at: <https://discuss.linuxcontainers.org>

### Mailing-lists
We use the LXC mailing-lists for developer and user discussions, you can
find and subscribe to those at: <https://lists.linuxcontainers.org>

### IRC
If you prefer live discussions, some of us also hang out in
[#lxcontainers](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#lxcontainers) on irc.freenode.net.

## FAQ
#### How to enable LXD server for remote access?
By default LXD server is not accessible from the networks as it only listens
on a local unix socket. You can make LXD available from the network by specifying
additional addresses to listen to. This is done with the `core.https_address`
config variable.

To see the current server configuration, run:

```bash
lxc config show
```

To set the address to listen to, find out what addresses are available and use
the `config set` command on the server:

```bash
ip addr
lxc config set core.https_address 192.168.1.15
```

#### When I do a `lxc remote add` over https, it asks for a password?
By default, LXD has no password for security reasons, so you can't do a remote
add this way. In order to set a password, do:

```bash
lxc config set core.trust_password SECRET
```

on the host LXD is running on. This will set the remote password that you can
then use to do `lxc remote add`.

You can also access the server without setting a password by copying the client
certificate from `.config/lxc/client.crt` to the server and adding it with:

```bash
lxc config trust add client.crt
```

#### How do I configure LXD storage?
LXD supports btrfs, ceph, directory, lvm and zfs based storage.

First make sure you have the relevant tools for your filesystem of
choice installed on the machine (btrfs-progs, lvm2 or zfsutils-linux).

By default, LXD comes with no configured network or storage.
You can get a basic configuration done with:

```bash
    lxd init
```

`lxd init` supports both directory based storage and ZFS.
If you want something else, you'll need to use the `lxc storage` command:

```bash
lxc storage create default BACKEND [OPTIONS...]
lxc profile device add default root disk path=/ pool=default
```

BACKEND is one of `btrfs`, `ceph`, `dir`, `lvm` or `zfs`.

Unless specified otherwise, LXD will setup loop based storage with a sane default size.

For production environments, you should be using block backed storage
instead both for performance and reliability reasons.

#### How can I live migrate a container using LXD?
Live migration requires a tool installed on both hosts called
[CRIU](http://criu.org), which is available in Ubuntu via:

```bash
sudo apt install criu
```

Then, launch your container with the following,

```bash
lxc launch ubuntu $somename
sleep 5s # let the container get to an interesting state
lxc move host1:$somename host2:$somename
```

And with luck you'll have migrated the container :). Migration is still in
experimental stages and may not work for all workloads. Please report bugs on
lxc-devel, and we can escalate to CRIU lists as necessary.

#### Can I bind mount my home directory in a container?
Yes. The easiest way to do that is using a privileged container to avoid file ownership issues:

1.a) create a container.

```bash
lxc launch ubuntu privilegedContainerName -c security.privileged=true
```

1.b) or, if your container already exists.

```bash
lxc config set privilegedContainerName security.privileged true
```

2) then.

```bash
lxc config device add privilegedContainerName shareName disk source=/home/$USER path=/home/ubuntu
```

#### How can I run docker inside a LXD container?
In order to run Docker inside a LXD container the `security.nesting` property of the container should be set to `true`. 

```bash
lxc config set <container> security.nesting true
```

Note that LXD containers cannot load kernel modules, so depending on your
Docker configuration you may need to have the needed extra kernel modules
loaded by the host.

You can do so by setting a comma separate list of kernel modules that your container needs with:

```bash
lxc config set <container> linux.kernel_modules <modules>
```

We have also received some reports that creating a `/.dockerenv` file in your
container can help Docker ignore some errors it's getting due to running in a
nested environment.

## Hacking on LXD
### Directly using the REST API
The LXD REST API can be used locally via unauthenticated Unix socket or remotely via SSL encapsulated TCP.

#### Via Unix socket

```bash
curl --unix-socket /var/lib/lxd/unix.socket \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d @hello-ubuntu.json \
    lxd/1.0/containers
```

#### Via TCP
TCP requires some additional configuration and is not enabled by default.

```bash
lxc config set core.https_address "[::]:8443"
```

```bash
curl -k -L \
    --cert ~/.config/lxc/client.crt \
    --key ~/.config/lxc/client.key \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d @hello-ubuntu.json \
    "https://127.0.0.1:8443/1.0/containers"
```

#### JSON payload
The `hello-ubuntu.json` file referenced above could contain something like:

```json
{
    "name":"some-ubuntu",
    "ephemeral":true,
    "config":{
        "limits.cpu":"2"
    },
    "source": {
        "type":"image",
        "mode":"pull",
        "protocol":"simplestreams",
        "server":"https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases",
        "alias":"14.04"
    }
}
```

Commit message:

README: Add basic install instructions
Signed-off-by: Stéphane Graber <stgraber@ubuntu.com>

doc/index.md, after:

[![LXD](https://linuxcontainers.org/static/img/containers.png)](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd)
# LXD
LXD is a next generation system container manager.  
It offers a user experience similar to virtual machines but using Linux containers instead.

It's image based with pre-made images available for a [wide number of Linux distributions](https://images.linuxcontainers.org)  
and is built around a very powerful, yet pretty simple, REST API.

To get a better idea of what LXD is and what it does, you can [try it online](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/try-it/)!  
Then if you want to run it locally, take a look at our [getting started guide](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/getting-started-cli/).

Release announcements can be found here: <https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/news/>  
And the release tarballs here: <https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/downloads/>

## Status
Type                | Service               | Status
---                 | ---                   | ---
CI (Linux)          | Jenkins               | [![Build Status](https://jenkins.linuxcontainers.org/job/lxd-github-commit/badge/icon)](https://jenkins.linuxcontainers.org/job/lxd-github-commit/)
CI (macOS)          | Travis                | [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lxc/lxd.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lxc/lxd/)
CI (Windows)        | AppVeyor              | [![Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/rb4141dsi2xm3n0x/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/lxc/lxd/)
LXD documentation   | ReadTheDocs           | [![Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/lxd/badge/?version=latest&style=flat)](https://lxd.readthedocs.org)
Go documentation    | Godoc                 | [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/lxc/lxd/client?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/lxc/lxd/client)
Static analysis     | GoReport              | [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/lxc/lxd)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/lxc/lxd)
Translations        | Weblate               | [![Translation status](https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/linux-containers/-/svg-badge.svg)](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/linux-containers/lxd/)
Project status      | CII Best Practices    | [![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1086/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1086)

## Installing LXD from packages
The LXD daemon only works on Linux but the client tool (`lxc`) is available on most platforms.

OS                  | Format                                            | Command
---                 | ---                                               | ---
Linux               | [Snap](https://snapcraft.io/lxd)                  | snap install lxd
Windows             | [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/lxc) | choco install lxc
MacOS               | [Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/lxc)  | brew install lxc

More instructions on installing LXD for a wide variety of Linux distributions and operating systems [can be found on our website](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/getting-started-cli/).

## Installing LXD from source
We recommend having the latest versions of liblxc (>= 2.0.0 required)
available for LXD development. Additionally, LXD requires Golang 1.10 or
later to work. On ubuntu, you can get those with:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install acl autoconf dnsmasq-base git golang libacl1-dev libcap-dev liblxc1 liblxc-dev libtool libuv1-dev make pkg-config rsync squashfs-tools tar tcl xz-utils ebtables
```

Note that when building LXC yourself, ensure to build it with the appropriate
security related libraries installed which our testsuite tests. Again, on
ubuntu, you can get those with:

```bash
sudo apt install libapparmor-dev libseccomp-dev libcap-dev
```

There are a few storage backends for LXD besides the default "directory" backend.
Installing these tools adds a bit to initramfs and may slow down your
host boot, but are needed if you'd like to use a particular backend:

```bash
sudo apt install lvm2 thin-provisioning-tools
sudo apt install btrfs-tools
```

To run the testsuite, you'll also need:

```bash
sudo apt install curl gettext jq sqlite3 uuid-runtime bzr socat
```


### Building the tools
LXD consists of two binaries, a client called `lxc` and a server called `lxd`.
These live in the source tree in the `lxc/` and `lxd/` dirs, respectively.
To get the code, set up your go environment:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/go
export GOPATH=~/go
```

And then download it as usual:

```bash
go get -d -v github.com/lxc/lxd/lxd
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/lxc/lxd
make deps
export CGO_CFLAGS="${CGO_CFLAGS} -I${GOPATH}/deps/sqlite/ -I${GOPATH}/deps/dqlite/include/ -I${GOPATH}/deps/raft/include/ -I${GOPATH}/deps/libco/"
export CGO_LDFLAGS="${CGO_LDFLAGS} -L${GOPATH}/deps/sqlite/.libs/ -L${GOPATH}/deps/dqlite/.libs/ -L${GOPATH}/deps/raft/.libs -L${GOPATH}/deps/libco/"
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="${GOPATH}/deps/sqlite/.libs/:${GOPATH}/deps/dqlite/.libs/:${GOPATH}/deps/raft/.libs:${GOPATH}/deps/libco/:${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}"
make
```

...which will give you two binaries in `$GOPATH/bin`, `lxd` the daemon binary,
and `lxc` a command line client to that daemon.

### Machine Setup
You'll need sub{u,g}ids for root, so that LXD can create the unprivileged
containers:

```bash
echo "root:1000000:65536" | sudo tee -a /etc/subuid /etc/subgid
```

Now you can run the daemon (the `--group sudo` bit allows everyone in the `sudo`
group to talk to LXD; you can create your own group if you want):

```bash
sudo -E LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH $GOPATH/bin/lxd --group sudo
```

## Security
LXD, similar to other container managers provides a UNIX socket for local communication.

**WARNING**: Anyone with access to that socket can fully control LXD, which includes
the ability to attach host devices and filesystems, this should
therefore only be given to users who would be trusted with root access
to the host.

When listening on the network, the same API is available on a TLS socket
(HTTPS), specific access on the remote API can be restricted through
Canonical RBAC.


More details are [available here](security.md).

## Getting started with LXD
Now that you have LXD running on your system you can read the [getting started guide](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/getting-started-cli/) or go through more examples and configurations in [our documentation](https://lxd.readthedocs.org).

## Bug reports
Bug reports can be filed at: <https://github.com/lxc/lxd/issues/new>

## Contributing
Fixes and new features are greatly appreciated but please read our [contributing guidelines](contributing.md) first.

## Support and discussions
### Forum
A discussion forum is available at: <https://discuss.linuxcontainers.org>

### Mailing-lists
We use the LXC mailing-lists for developer and user discussions, you can
find and subscribe to those at: <https://lists.linuxcontainers.org>

### IRC
If you prefer live discussions, some of us also hang out in
[#lxcontainers](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#lxcontainers) on irc.freenode.net.

## FAQ
#### How to enable LXD server for remote access?
By default LXD server is not accessible from the networks as it only listens
on a local unix socket. You can make LXD available from the network by specifying
additional addresses to listen to. This is done with the `core.https_address`
config variable.

To see the current server configuration, run:

```bash
lxc config show
```

To set the address to listen to, find out what addresses are available and use
the `config set` command on the server:

```bash
ip addr
lxc config set core.https_address 192.168.1.15
```

#### When I do a `lxc remote add` over https, it asks for a password?
By default, LXD has no password for security reasons, so you can't do a remote
add this way. In order to set a password, do:

```bash
lxc config set core.trust_password SECRET
```

on the host LXD is running on. This will set the remote password that you can
then use to do `lxc remote add`.

You can also access the server without setting a password by copying the client
certificate from `.config/lxc/client.crt` to the server and adding it with:

```bash
lxc config trust add client.crt
```

#### How do I configure LXD storage?
LXD supports btrfs, ceph, directory, lvm and zfs based storage.

First make sure you have the relevant tools for your filesystem of
choice installed on the machine (btrfs-progs, lvm2 or zfsutils-linux).

By default, LXD comes with no configured network or storage.
You can get a basic configuration done with:

```bash
    lxd init
```

`lxd init` supports both directory based storage and ZFS.
If you want something else, you'll need to use the `lxc storage` command:

```bash
lxc storage create default BACKEND [OPTIONS...]
lxc profile device add default root disk path=/ pool=default
```

BACKEND is one of `btrfs`, `ceph`, `dir`, `lvm` or `zfs`.

Unless specified otherwise, LXD will setup loop based storage with a sane default size.

For production environments, you should be using block backed storage
instead both for performance and reliability reasons.

#### How can I live migrate a container using LXD?
Live migration requires a tool installed on both hosts called
[CRIU](http://criu.org), which is available in Ubuntu via:

```bash
sudo apt install criu
```

Then, launch your container with the following,

```bash
lxc launch ubuntu $somename
sleep 5s # let the container get to an interesting state
lxc move host1:$somename host2:$somename
```

And with luck you'll have migrated the container :). Migration is still in
experimental stages and may not work for all workloads. Please report bugs on
lxc-devel, and we can escalate to CRIU lists as necessary.

#### Can I bind mount my home directory in a container?
Yes. The easiest way to do that is using a privileged container to avoid file ownership issues:

1.a) create a container.

```bash
lxc launch ubuntu privilegedContainerName -c security.privileged=true
```

1.b) or, if your container already exists.

```bash
lxc config set privilegedContainerName security.privileged true
```

2) then.

```bash
lxc config device add privilegedContainerName shareName disk source=/home/$USER path=/home/ubuntu
```

#### How can I run docker inside a LXD container?
In order to run Docker inside a LXD container the `security.nesting` property of the container should be set to `true`. 

```bash
lxc config set <container> security.nesting true
```

Note that LXD containers cannot load kernel modules, so depending on your
Docker configuration you may need to have the needed extra kernel modules
loaded by the host.

You can do so by setting a comma separate list of kernel modules that your container needs with:

```bash
lxc config set <container> linux.kernel_modules <modules>
```

We have also received some reports that creating a `/.dockerenv` file in your
container can help Docker ignore some errors it's getting due to running in a
nested environment.

## Hacking on LXD
### Directly using the REST API
The LXD REST API can be used locally via unauthenticated Unix socket or remotely via SSL encapsulated TCP.

#### Via Unix socket

```bash
curl --unix-socket /var/lib/lxd/unix.socket \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d @hello-ubuntu.json \
    lxd/1.0/containers
```

#### Via TCP
TCP requires some additional configuration and is not enabled by default.

```bash
lxc config set core.https_address "[::]:8443"
```

```bash
curl -k -L \
    --cert ~/.config/lxc/client.crt \
    --key ~/.config/lxc/client.key \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X POST \
    -d @hello-ubuntu.json \
    "https://127.0.0.1:8443/1.0/containers"
```

#### JSON payload
The `hello-ubuntu.json` file referenced above could contain something like:

```json
{
    "name":"some-ubuntu",
    "ephemeral":true,
    "config":{
        "limits.cpu":"2"
    },
    "source": {
        "type":"image",
        "mode":"pull",
        "protocol":"simplestreams",
        "server":"https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases",
        "alias":"14.04"
    }
}
```
