doc/server.md, before:

# Server configuration
The server configuration is a simple set of key and values.

The key/value configuration is namespaced with the following namespaces
currently supported:

 - `core` (core daemon configuration)
 - `images` (image configuration)
 - `maas` (MAAS integration)

Key                             | Type      | Default   | API extension            | Description
:--                             | :---      | :------   | :------------            | :----------
cluster.offline\_threshold      | integer   | 20        | clustering               | Number of seconds after which an unresponsive node is considered offline
core.https\_address             | string    | -         | -                        | Address to bind for the remote API
core.https\_allowed\_credentials| boolean   | -         | -                        | Whether to set Access-Control-Allow-Credentials http header value to "true"
core.https\_allowed\_headers    | string    | -         | -                        | Access-Control-Allow-Headers http header value
core.https\_allowed\_methods    | string    | -         | -                        | Access-Control-Allow-Methods http header value
core.https\_allowed\_origin     | string    | -         | -                        | Access-Control-Allow-Origin http header value
core.macaroon.endpoint          | string    | -         | macaroon\_authentication | URL of the the external authentication endpoint using Macaroons
core.proxy\_https               | string    | -         | -                        | https proxy to use, if any (falls back to HTTPS\_PROXY environment variable)
core.proxy\_http                | string    | -         | -                        | http proxy to use, if any (falls back to HTTP\_PROXY environment variable)
core.proxy\_ignore\_hosts       | string    | -         | -                        | hosts which don't need the proxy for use (similar format to NO\_PROXY, e.g. 1.2.3.4,1.2.3.5, falls back to NO\_PROXY environment variable)
core.trust\_password            | string    | -         | -                        | Password to be provided by clients to setup a trust
images.auto\_update\_cached     | boolean   | true      | -                        | Whether to automatically update any image that LXD caches
images.auto\_update\_interval   | integer   | 6         | -                        | Interval in hours at which to look for update to cached images (0 disables it)
images.compression\_algorithm   | string    | gzip      | -                        | Compression algorithm to use for new images (bzip2, gzip, lzma, xz or none)
images.remote\_cache\_expiry    | integer   | 10        | -                        | Number of days after which an unused cached remote image will be flushed
maas.api.key                    | string    | -         | maas\_network            | API key to manage MAAS
maas.api.url                    | string    | -         | maas\_network            | URL of the MAAS server
maas.machine                    | string    | hostname  | maas\_network            | Name of this LXD host in MAAS

Those keys can be set using the lxc tool with:

```bash
lxc config set <key> <value>
```

Commit message:

lxd: Add built-in pprof server
This commit adds a new core.debug_address option (node specific) which
controls a built-in HTTP server to be used with the "pprof" tool or
directly from a web browser (/debug/pprof is the main endpoint).

This is a much more flexible option that can be live-enabled by our
users when running into a problem and replaces the old cpu-profile,
memory-profile and print-goroutines command line options.

Signed-off-by: Stéphane Graber <stgraber@ubuntu.com>

doc/server.md, after:

# Server configuration
The server configuration is a simple set of key and values.

The key/value configuration is namespaced with the following namespaces
currently supported:

 - `core` (core daemon configuration)
 - `images` (image configuration)
 - `maas` (MAAS integration)

Key                             | Type      | Default   | API extension            | Description
:--                             | :---      | :------   | :------------            | :----------
cluster.offline\_threshold      | integer   | 20        | clustering               | Number of seconds after which an unresponsive node is considered offline
core.debug\_address             | string    | -         | pprof\_http              | Address to bind the pprof debug server to (HTTP)
core.https\_address             | string    | -         | -                        | Address to bind for the remote API (HTTPs)
core.https\_allowed\_credentials| boolean   | -         | -                        | Whether to set Access-Control-Allow-Credentials http header value to "true"
core.https\_allowed\_headers    | string    | -         | -                        | Access-Control-Allow-Headers http header value
core.https\_allowed\_methods    | string    | -         | -                        | Access-Control-Allow-Methods http header value
core.https\_allowed\_origin     | string    | -         | -                        | Access-Control-Allow-Origin http header value
core.macaroon.endpoint          | string    | -         | macaroon\_authentication | URL of the the external authentication endpoint using Macaroons
core.proxy\_https               | string    | -         | -                        | https proxy to use, if any (falls back to HTTPS\_PROXY environment variable)
core.proxy\_http                | string    | -         | -                        | http proxy to use, if any (falls back to HTTP\_PROXY environment variable)
core.proxy\_ignore\_hosts       | string    | -         | -                        | hosts which don't need the proxy for use (similar format to NO\_PROXY, e.g. 1.2.3.4,1.2.3.5, falls back to NO\_PROXY environment variable)
core.trust\_password            | string    | -         | -                        | Password to be provided by clients to setup a trust
images.auto\_update\_cached     | boolean   | true      | -                        | Whether to automatically update any image that LXD caches
images.auto\_update\_interval   | integer   | 6         | -                        | Interval in hours at which to look for update to cached images (0 disables it)
images.compression\_algorithm   | string    | gzip      | -                        | Compression algorithm to use for new images (bzip2, gzip, lzma, xz or none)
images.remote\_cache\_expiry    | integer   | 10        | -                        | Number of days after which an unused cached remote image will be flushed
maas.api.key                    | string    | -         | maas\_network            | API key to manage MAAS
maas.api.url                    | string    | -         | maas\_network            | URL of the MAAS server
maas.machine                    | string    | hostname  | maas\_network            | Name of this LXD host in MAAS

Those keys can be set using the lxc tool with:

```bash
lxc config set <key> <value>
```
